Docker Swarm - Load Balancing 



                      The swarm manager uses ingress load balancing to expose the services you want to make available externally to the 

swarm. The swarm manager can automatically assign the service a PublishedPort or you can configure a PublishedPort for the service. 

You can specify any unused port. If you do not specify a port, the swarm manager assigns the service a port in the 30000-32767 range.

                      

                      External components, such as cloud load balancers, can access the service on the PublishedPort of any node in 

the cluster whether or not the node is currently running the task for the service. All nodes in the swarm route ingress connections 

to a running task instance.Swarm mode has an internal DNS component that automatically assigns each service in the swarm a DNS entry.

The swarm manager uses internal load balancing to distribute requests among services within the cluster based upon the DNS name 

of the service.



There are basically two types of load balancing:

                - Internal

                - External

                

                Internal is all about load balancing requests that are made from within the Swarm cluster (from other containers), 

                whereas external load balancing targets ingress traffic that enters a cluster. Both of these functionalities are 

                provided by the Docker Engine itself.

                

Internal Load Balancing :



           This feature is automatically enabled once a Service is created. So when a Service is created, it get a virtual IP address 

right away, on the Service’s network. As we said before in the Service Discovery part, when a Service is requested the resulting DNS 

query is forwarded to the Docker Engine, which in turn returns the IP of the service, a virtual IP. Traffic sent to that virtual IP 

is load balanced to all of the healthy containers of that service on the network. All the load balancing is done by Docker, 

since only one entry-point is given to the client (one IP). 



External Load Balacing: 



        First of all, the load balancing is not activated by default, but rather when you expose a service using the –publish flag 

at creation or update time. When this happens, every node in the cluster starts listening on the published port. This means that 

every node can respond to a request for the service mapped onto that port. What is really interesting is what happens when a node 

receives a request, but it does not have an instance of the container within it. Since Docker 1.12 (same version that integrated

Swarm Mode to the Docker Engine), there is a feature called Routing Mesh, which uses IP Virtual Servers (ipvs) and iptables 

in order to load balance requests in layer 4. Basically, ipvs implements layer 4 load balancing functionalities on the Linux Kernel, 

which allows to redirect requests for TCP/UDP-based services to the real backends (containers in this case). In Swarm’s specific case, 

every node listens on the exposed port, and then forwards the request to the exposed service’s VIP, using a special overlay network 

called ingress. This overlay network is only used when transporting external traffic to the requested services. In this scope, 

the same internal load balancing strategies described in the previous section are used.
